2006-07-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: distribute ISO and other partial implementations
	* src/drivers/cd.c: changes for partial compile
	* src/drivers/dl.c: changes for parital compile
	* src/drivers/lis.conf: roughed in driver definitions

2006-07-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated quick installation instructions

2006-07-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* NEWS: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/changelog: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/rules.in: clean deb package master build
	* src/test/test-ip.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: handle old SLES 9 2.6.5 kernel

2006-07-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/copyright: typo

2006-07-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: packaged release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* debian/control.in: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu
	* debian/rules.in:: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu

2006-07-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* .pkgrelease: package release candidate for Mark Fugate

2006-07-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: changes to correct LiS only compile on FC5
	* strxns.spec.in: place all include files in development sub-package
	* src/drivers/ip_hooks.h.in: correct compile back to RH 7.2
	* acinclude.m4: corrections for compile on FC5 with 2.6.17 kernel

2006-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* README-alpha: updated for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release
	* README-nexusware: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated for release

2006-07-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updates for release
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: changes for 2.6.17 kernel
	* src/test/ldltest.c: changes for gcc 4.1.1 compile
	* acinclude.m4: make inet tests compatible
	* src/drivers/ip_hooks.h.in: make inet tests compatible

2006-07-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/control.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/rules.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* Makefile.am: added new KERNEL_BLDFLAGS build flags for 2.6.16+
	* strxns.lsm.in: updates for next release

2006-06-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: const'ness and a little rationalization back to
	  next gen upd driver
	* TODO: updated things to do

2006-06-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxns.refs: updated references for IUA, DUA, M2PA

2006-06-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: minor optimization tweaks

2006-05-19  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/util/init/strxns.sh: corrected removal for debian

2006-05-18  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: rationalized to RAWIP driver

2006-05-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .indent.pro: added np_long and friends to types
	* src/drivers/nf.c: removed redundant QR_ definitions
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: corrected buffer leaks
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: added buffer leak checks

2006-05-12  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: corrections from testing
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: additional test cases
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: additional test cases

2006-05-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: corrections from testing
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: additional test cases
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: additional test cases

2006-05-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: corrections from testing
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: additional test cases
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: additional test cases

2006-05-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: use info.CURRENT_state instead of i_state
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: expand printout of N_INFO_ACK
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: guard timer test expected to fail
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: changes from initial testing
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: changes from initial testing
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: changes from initial testing
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: changes from testing
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: changes from testing
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: changes from testing

2006-05-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/strconf-sh: added module id base to strconf
	* m4/strconf.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* am/strconf.am: added module id base to strconf
	* acinclude.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* Makefile.am: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/init/README: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/init/strxns: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/init/strxns.sh: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/modutils/strxns.in: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/sysconfig/README: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/sysconfig/strxns: added init scripts for XNS
	* src/util/sysconfig/strxns.conf: added init scripts for XNS
	* strxns.spec.in: added np_ip module, corrected init script removal
	* NEWS: updates
	* README: updates
	* src/modules/ip_strm_mod.c: added two debug statements
	* acinclude.m4: add check for module_text_address symbol
	* src/drivers/ip.c: rip module_text_address, hash table changes
	* src/drivers/np.c: rip module_text_address
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: rip module_text_address, hash table changes
	* src/drivers/dl.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/dl_ip.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/ip.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/np.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: working through first few test cases
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: working through first few test cases
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: working through first few test cases
	* tests/testsuite.at: working through first few test cases

2006-05-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/Makefile.am: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* doc/man/man4/ipcl.4.man: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* doc/man/man4/ipco.4.man: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* doc/man/man4/np_ip.4.man: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* doc/man/man4/npi_ip.4.man: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* doc/man/man8/test-np_ip.8.man: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* src/drivers/ip.c: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* src/drivers/lis.conf: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* src/drivers/np_ip.c: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* src/test/test-ip.c: working up test program
	* src/test/test-np_ip.c: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* tests/Makefile.am: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* tests/testsuite-np_ip.at: shifted over to np_ip for NPI-IP
	* acinclude.m4: changed major base offset

2006-05-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: added test program
	* doc/man/Makefile.am: added test-ip manual page
	* doc/man/man7/npi_ip.7.man: updated documentation
	* doc/man/man8/test-ip.8.man: added test-ip manual page
	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI-IP driver
	* src/include/sys/npi_ip.h: added TOS values
	* src/test/test-ip.c: added test program
	* tests/Makefile.am: added NPI-IP driver test suite
	* tests/testsuite-ip.at: added NPI-IP driver test suite
	* tests/testsuite.at: added NPI-IP driver test suite

2006-05-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI-IP driver
	* src/include/sys/npi_ip.h: working up NPI-IP driver

2006-05-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI-IP driver
	* src/include/sys/npi_ip.h: working up NPI-IP driver

2006-04-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxns.refs: more references
	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI-IP driver

2006-04-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ip.c: call interface correction

2006-04-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxns.refs: added a few more references
	* doc/man/man4/ip.4.man: updating manual pages
	* doc/man/man4/np.4.man: updating manual pages
	* doc/man/man7/npi_ip.7.man: updating manual pages
	* src/drivers/np.c: working up NP driver

2006-04-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/dl.c: added new DL driver

2006-04-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxns.refs: corrected spelling error reported by spammer

2006-04-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxns.refs: added some RFC references

2006-04-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man*/*.man: Moved all .so xxx.macros lines down beneath .R2 with a
	  script.  SuSE 10's broken man(1) program thinks that .so lines after a
	  comment line is a redirect, but it is not.  No other man(1) is that
	  stupid.  OTOH SuSE 10's man(1) uses zsoelim, so it doesn't matter if
	  our .macros file gets compressed (just our .refs file).  Also updated
	  all copyright headers.

2006-04-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* acinclude.m4: xfrm_policy_delete returns int on 2.6.13+.
	* src/drivers/ip_hooks.h.in: xfrm_policy_delete returns int on 2.6.13+.
	* src/drivers/ip.c (ip_free, ip_open, ip_close): gcc 4 does not like
	  different attributes between declaration and definition.

2006-03-31  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI IP test and mux driver

2006-03-30  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI IP test and mux driver
	* src/include/sys/npi_ip.h: working up NPI IP test and mux driver
	* src/drivers/ip.c: corrections for x86_64 compile

2006-03-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* TODO: added netfilter driver to TODO list

2006-03-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxns.refs: updated LiS and STREAMS release numbers
	* strxns.spec.in (%package test): described send-pr
	* acinclude.m4: 2.6.15 has no proto member in net_protocol

2006-03-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* acinclude.m4: added missing IP_ROUTE_OUTPUT_EXPLICIT
	* src/drivers/ip.c: corrections for old 2.4 kernel (RH7) build
	* strxns.spec.in: added send-pr files
	* NEWS: updated release notes
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated release notes
	* acinclude.m4: rationalized to strinet
	* src/drivers/ip.c: 64 bit corrections

2006-03-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/strxns.texi: added makefile target index
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: bumped release number
	* strxns.lsm.in: boutelli can't handle decimal point in lsm

2006-03-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .cvsignore: added *.pr files
	* Makefile.am: added pr.am for problem reports
	* acinclude.m4: added pr.m4 and call _AUTOPR for problem reports

2006-03-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* src/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* strxns.spec.in: tied in --disable-devel flag
	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up IP driver
	* configure.ac: updated and rationalized
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* doc/specs/dlpi/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* doc/specs/npi/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* doc/specs/tpi/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT

2006-03-17  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ip.c: working up NPI-IP driver
	* doc/man/man4/ip.4.man: documentation for ip driver
	* doc/man/man7/npi_ip.7.man: documentation for ip driver
	* Makefile.am: added ip(4) driver to build
	* doc/man/Makefile.am: added ip(4) driver manpages
	* src/drviers/lis.conf: added ip(4) driver
	* acinclude.m4: check members for inet_protocol, net_protocol
	- get symbol address for inet_proto_lock
	- check existence of inet_protocol or net_protocol
	- added lots of checks from strsctp/acinclude.m4
	* src/drivers/ip_hooks.h.in: added config file
	* configure.ac: added src/drivers/ip_hooks.h to config files
	* Makefile.am: added ip_hooks.h file
	* src/include/sys/npi_ip.h: added ip specific npi file
	* src/include/Makefile.am: added npi_ip.h file

2006-03-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ANNOUNCE: added announcement file for release
	* .pkgrelease: bumped release number after release
	* NEWS: prepare for next release

2006-03-15  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac (AC_CONFIG_SRCDIR): change unique file to .lsm.in file
	* tests/local.at: set better defaults for stand-alone test suites

2006-03-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>
	
	* strxns.spec.in: added second rpmextra string

2006-03-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac: allow --disable-dependency-tracking in maintainer mode

2006-03-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strxns.spec.in: updated description fields and headers

2006-03-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strxns.lsm.in: make suitable for Linux Software Map submission

2006-03-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Prerequisites): updated for release

2006-03-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: compile tools static for distcheck
	* am/help.am: documented remove target
	* am/openss7.am: added remove target and reverse recursive targets
	* debian/changelog: updated release numbering
	* debian/copyright: updated headers
	* debian/control.in: updated deprecated references to LiS

2006-03-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/specs/dlpi/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/specs/npi/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/specs/tpi/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/specs/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/include/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* tests/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* Makefile.am: updated headers

2006-03-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/ldl.c: corrections for FC4 x86_64 build
	* src/include/sys/ldl.h: corrections for FC4 x86_64 build
	* tests/local.at: updated headers

2006-03-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* THANKS: updated for release
	* doc/man/strxns.macros: updated for release
	* doc/man/strxns.refs: updated references
	* README-nexusware: updated for release
	* AUTHORS: updated for release
	* src/include/sys/ldl.h: 32/64-bit compatibility, remove dependency on
	  atomic_t from kernel
	* src/include/sys/npi.h: 32/64-bit compatibility, some reformatting
	* src/modules/ip_strm_mod.c: 32/64-bit ioctl compatibility
	* src/test/ldltest.c: 64-bit compatibility
	* src/util/ldlconfig.c: 64-bit compatibility

2006-03-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Bugs, Known Bugs, Maturity): updated release notes
	* src/drivers/ldl.c: corrections to typos introduced
	* doc/manual/strxns.texi (detailed node listing): added missing Troubleshooting
	* README-alpha: added alpha readme file for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release

2006-03-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: modified -- corrected format and upated
	* Makefile.am: modified -- added README-LiS to distribution
	* NEWS: modified -- updated for release
	* README: modified -- updated for release
	* README-LiS: added -- README file to capture LiS binary
	  compatibility issues (if any).
	* src/drivers/ip_to_dlpi.c: modified -- 64-bit compatibility for
	  printk statements.
	* src/drivers/ldl.c: modified -- added 64-bit compatibility,
	  32-bit ioctl compatibility, TRANPARENT ioctl capability,
	  removed issues with atomic_t being placed in a user header.
	* src/include/sys/cdi.h: modified -- Applied t_uscalar_t
	  approach to 64-bit and 32-bit compatibility in this header
	  file (cd_long and cd_ulong are 32-bit on both 64-bit and
	  32-bit models).
	* src/include/sys/dlpi.h: modified -- Applied t_uscalar_t
	  approach to 64-bit and 32-bit compatibility in this header
	  file (cd_long and cd_ulong are 32-bit on both 64-bit and
	  32-bit models).
	* TODO: updated to do items
	* README: updated for release

2006-02-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: modified -- updated for new release
	* Makefile.am: modified -- added TODO file to distribution
	* TODO: added -- added TODO file to distribution

2006-02-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Changes from strsctp 0.9.2.2 release:
	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels

2005-09-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.5  2005/09/14 23:42:08  brian
	- bumped release numbers and change logs

2005-07-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.4  2005/07/04 20:19:01  brian
	- updated dates

2005-05-15  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.3  2005/05/14 08:26:03  brian
	- copyright header correction

2004-08-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.2  2004/08/14 12:35:51  brian
	- Serious work on updating documentation.


2004-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.1  2004/07/04 00:54:07  brian
	- Initial import of strxns package.

2004-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- started separate xns packaging

-----

Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com>
Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass
Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions apply
to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it
is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014
of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any
successor regulations) and the Government is acquiring only the license rights
granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to non-Government
users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government
other than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the
Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in
the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the FAR
(or any successor regulations).


Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from OpenSS7
Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/

vim: ft=changelog tw=80 com=fb\:*,fb\:- fo+=tcqlorn nocin nosi
