2006-07-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: fixed mysterious testcase 1074 1222 failure
	* Makefile.am: added ISO files to the distribution

2006-07-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated quick installation instructions

2006-07-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* NEWS: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/changelog: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/rules.in: clean deb package master build
	* src/test/test-inet_raw.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/test/test-inet_sctp.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/test/test-inet_tcp.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/test/test-inet_udp.c: removed trigraphs
	* acinclude.m4: handle old SLES 9 2.6.5 kernel
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: handle old SLES 9 2.6.5 kernel
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: handle old SLES 9 2.6.5 kernel
	* src/drivers/udp.c: handle old SLES 9 2.6.5 kernel

2006-07-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/copyright: typo
	* BUGS: added bug file to capture development bugs

2006-07-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/control.in: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu
	* debian/rules.in:: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu
	* debian/changelog: packaged release candidate for Mark Fugate

2006-07-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* .pkgrelease: package release candidate for Mark Fugate

2006-07-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strinet.spec.in: place all include files in development sub-package
	* src/drivers/inet.c: correct compile back to RH 7.2
	* src/drivers/udp.c: correct compile back to RH 7.2
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: correct compile back to RH 7.2
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: correct compile back to RH 7.2
	* src/drivers/udp_hooks.h.in: correct compile back to RH 7.2
	* acinclude.m4: correct compile back to RH 7.2

2006-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release
	* README-nexusware: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated for release

2006-07-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updates for release
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: changes for 2.6.17 kernel
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: changes for 2.6.17 kernel
	* src/drivers/udp.c: changes for 2.6.17 kernel
	* acinclude.m4: make inet tests compatible
	* src/drivers/udp_hooks.h.in: make inet tests compatible

2006-07-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/control.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/rules.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* Makefile.am: added new KERNEL_BLDFLAGS build flags for 2.6.16+
	* strinet.lsm.in: updates for next release
	* src/drivers/udp.c: gets and puts can't be fastcalled

2006-06-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c:
	  - corrected minor bug in optimization
	  - receive and send buffer reports
	  - stream high and low water marks

2006-06-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: more oprofile optimizations

2006-06-19  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: some optimization; dest caching

2006-06-18  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: use msgsize instead of msgdsize
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: use msgsize instead of msgdsize
	* src/drivers/udp.c: use msgsize instead of msgdsize
	  - fast path factoring

2006-06-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c:
	  - found very noxious buffer overflow bug
	  - some rework, passes verification testsuite fine
	* src/drivers/rawip.c:
	  - rationalized to udp driver
	  - some rework, passes verification testsuite fine
	* TODO: updated things to do

2006-06-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/inet.c: can't preallocate qband structures under LiS
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: rationalize to udp driver
	* src/drivers/tcp.c:
	  - add missing definitions for LiS
	  - correct printf warnings for LiS
	* src/drivers/udp.c: 
	  - defeated trace statements in debug mode
	  - reworked m_error and te_error_reply
	  - added const'ness

2006-06-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strinet.refs: updated references for IUA, DUA, M2PA

2006-06-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/inet.c: minor bug found by inspection in inet.c
	- should not affect any real use of the driver

2006-06-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: strapped in zero-copy and write offset and padding
	- this tests well now

2006-06-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* acinclude.m4: find symbol skbuff_head_cache
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up zero-copy architecture

2006-05-31  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: started zero-copy architecture
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: rationalized to 2nd gen udp driver

2006-05-29  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: roughing in zero-copy architecture

2006-05-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: added noinline in strategic places
	* src/drivers/udp.c: added noinline in strategic places

2006-05-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/udp.c: optimization from profiling

2006-05-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: working up performance tests of 2nd gen drivers
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up performance tests of 2nd gen drivers
	* src/drivers/inet.c: FC4 does not export sysctl_ip_default_ttl
	* src/drivers/udp_hooks.h: FC4 does not export sysctl_ip_default_ttl
	* acinclude.m4: FC4 does not export sysctl_ip_default_ttl

2006-05-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: working up performance tests of 2nd gen drivers
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up performance tests of 2nd gen drivers

2006-05-19  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: updated
	* src/drivers/inet.c: minor corrections
	* src/drivers/lis.conf.in: avoid conflicts
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: working up RAWIP driver
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up UDP driver
	* src/test/test-inet_raw.c: working up RAWIP driver
	* src/test/test-inet_sctp.c: spelling correction, rationalized
	* src/test/test-inet_tcp.c: spelling correction, rationalized
	* src/test/test-inet_udp.c: working up UDP driver
	* tests/Makefile.am: added test suites for 2nd get drivers
	* tests/testsuite-inet_raw2.at: added test suites for 2nd get drivers
	* tests/testsuite-inet_udp2.at: added test suites for 2nd get drivers
	* tests/testsuite.at: added test suites for 2nd get drivers
	* strinet.spec.in: added 2nd gen drivers
	* src/util/init/strinet: added 2nd gen drivers
	* src/util/init/strinet.sh: added 2nd gen drivers

2006-05-18  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: working up RAWIP driver
	* src/drivers/udp.c: rationalized to RAWIP driver
	* tests/testsuite-inet_raw2.at: added test suite for 2nd gen driver
	* tests/testsuite-inet_udp2.at: added test suite for 2nd gen driver
	* tests/testsuite.at: added test suites for 2nd gen drivers
	* tests/Makefile.am: added test suites for 2nd gen drivers
	* src/test/test-inet_raw.c: make sizes appropriate for 2nd gen drivers too
	* src/test/test-inet_udp.c: make sizes appropriate for 2nd gen drivers too
	* src/drivers/inet.c: correct SDU sizes for rawip and udp

2006-05-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: updated
	* tests/testsuite-inet_raw.at: added buffer leak checks
	* tests/testsuite-inet_sctp.at: added buffer leak checks
	* tests/testsuite-inet_tcp.at: added buffer leak checks
	* tests/testsuite-inet_udp.at: added buffer leak checks
	* src/drivers/inet.c: removed redundant QR_ definitions
	* acinclude.m4: changes for compile and load
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: changes for compile and load
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: changes for compile and load
	* src/drivers/udp.c: changes for compile and load

2006-05-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/strconf-sh: added module id base to strconf
	* m4/strconf.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* am/strconf.am: added module id base to strconf
	* acinclude.m4: added module id base to strconf

	* strinet.spec.in: updated headers, corrected init script removal
	* src/util/init/README: updated headers
	* src/util/init/strinet: updated headers
	* src/util/init/strinet.sh: updated headers
	* src/util/modutils/strinet.in: updated headers
	* src/util/sysconfig/README: updated headers
	* src/util/sysconfig/strinet: updated headers
	* src/util/sysconfig/strinet.conf: updated headers

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers
	* src/drivers/udp.c: new gcc mishandles ++ of cast pointers

2006-05-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/Makefile.am: added tcp2 manual page
	* doc/man/man4/tcp2.4.man: additional manual pages for new tcp driver
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: strapped out missing cksum_generate()
	* src/drivers/udp.c: strapped out missing cksum_generate()
	* acinclude.m4: changed major base offset

2006-05-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: changes for compile
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: changes for compile
	* src/drivers/udp.c: changes for compile

2006-04-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strinet.refs: more references
	* doc/man/man3/xti_tcp.3.man: updated manual page
	* doc/man/man7/tpi_ip.7.man: updated manual page
	* doc/man/man7/tpi_tcp.7.man: updated manual page
	* Makefile.am: added 2nd gen TCP driver
	* src/drivers/lis.conf.in: added 2nd gen TCP driver
	* src/drivers/tcp.c: added 2nd gen TCP driver

2006-04-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: working up RAWIP driver
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up UDP driver
	* doc/man/strinet.refs: updated references
	* doc/man/man4/rawip.4.man: updated references
	* doc/man/man7/tpi_ip.7.man: updated references
	* doc/man/man7/tpi_tcp.7.man: updated references
	* src/drivers/lis.conf.in: corrected loadable rawip

2006-04-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: reorder
	* acinclude.m4: additional checks for udp2 and rawip2
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: changes for compile
	* src/drivers/udp.c: changes for compile

2006-04-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strinet.refs: added a few more references
	* doc/man/man3/xti_udp.3.man: updating manual pages
	* doc/man/man7/tpi_ip.7.man: updating manual pages
	* doc/man/man7/tpi_udp.7.man: updating manual pages
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up second generation UPD driver
	* src/drivers/inet.c: locking correction

2006-04-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/modules/cmot.c: added module for cmot
	* src/modules/isot.c: added module for isot
	* src/modules/itot.c: added module for itot
	* src/modules/lpp.c: added module for lpp
	* src/modules/tcpns.c: added module for tcpns
	* src/modules/xot.c: added module for xot

2006-04-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strinet.refs: corrected spelling error reported by spammer

2006-04-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strinet.refs: added some RFC references

2006-04-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man*/*.man: Moved all .so xxx.macros lines down beneath .R2 with a
	  script.  SuSE 10's broken man(1) program thinks that .so lines after a
	  comment line is a redirect, but it is not.  No other man(1) is that
	  stupid.  OTOH SuSE 10's man(1) uses zsoelim, so it doesn't matter if
	  our .macros file gets compressed (just our .refs file).  Also updated
	  all copyright headers.

2006-04-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* acinclude.m4: handling of __tcp_push_pending_frames on 2.6.13+ kernel
	* src/drivers/inet.c: handling of __tcp_push_pending_frames on 2.6.13+
	  kernel

2006-04-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* acinclude.m4: add check for <net/request_sock.h> for 2.6.13 kernels.
	  I finally stumbled across a 2.6.13 kernel (in SuSE 10) that has a
	  request_sock structure but no inet_csk().  This handles that case.
	  Also, xfrm_policy_delete returns int on 2.6.13+.
	* src/drivers/inet.c: handles request_sock with no inet_connection_sock
	* src/drivers/udp.c (udp_open, udp_close): gcc 4 does not like different
	  attributes between declaration and definition.
	* src/drivers/rawip.c (rawip_open, rawip_close): gcc 4 does not like
	  different attributes between declaration and definition.
	* src/drivers/udp_hooks.h.in: xfrm_policy_delete returns int on 2.6.13+.
	* src/drivers/inet.c: have to put freezestr/unfreezestr around strqset

2006-03-31  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/inet.c: significant changes to the INET driver
	  - largely rewrote ss_sock_sendmsg
	  - ss_sock_sendmsg has been causing some problems over the last number
	    of releases.  This version queues messages retrieved from the socket
	    on the read queue when there are buffer allocation failures.
	  - optimizations

2006-03-30  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: working up second gen rawip driver
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: corrections for x86_64 compile
	* src/drivers/inet.c (ss_sock_recvmsg): fixed buffer leak reported by
	  John Wenker
	* scripts/texi/funding.texi: added John Wenker to contributors list

2006-03-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/test/test-inet_tcp.c: rationalized to test-inet_sctp.c
	* src/drivers/udp.c: corrected some compile problems

2006-03-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strinet.refs: updated LiS and STREAMS release numbers
	* doc/man/Makefile.am: added manpages for new udp and rawip drivers
	* doc/man/man4/rawip.4.man: added manpages for new udp and rawip drivers
	* doc/man/man4/rawip2.4.man: added manpages for new udp and rawip drivers
	* doc/man/man4/tcp.4.man: added manpages for new udp and rawip drivers
	* doc/man/man4/udp.4.man: added manpages for new udp and rawip drivers
	* doc/man/man4/udp2.4.man: added manpages for new udp and rawip drivers
	* strinet.spec.in (%package test): described send-pr
	* acinclude.m4: 2.6.15 has no proto member in net_protocol
	* src/drivers/lis.conf.in: correction
	* src/drivers/rawip.c: changes to compile on x86_64 2.6.15
	* src/drivers/udp.c: changes to compile on x86_64 2.6.15
	* src/drivers/udp.c: working up UDP driver
	* src/test/test-inet_sctp.c: rationalized to strsctp package

2006-03-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/rawip.c: added new rawip driver
	* src/drivers/lis.conf.in: added new rawip driver
	* Maekfile.am: added new rawip driver

2006-03-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strinet.spec.in: added send-pr files
	* NEWS: updated release notes
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated release notes
	* src/drivers/lis.conf.in: added new udp driver
	* Makefile.am: added new udp driver
	* configure.ac: added src/drivers/udp_hooks.h config header
	* acinclude.m4: rationalized to strxns (added missing checks)
	* src/drivers/udp.c: first compile pass

2006-03-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/strinet.texi: added makefile target index
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: bumped release number
	* strinet.lsm.in: boutelli can't handle decimal point in lsm

2006-03-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .cvsignore: added *.pr files
	* Makefile.am: added pr.am for problem reports
	* acinclude.m4: added pr.m4 and call _AUTOPR for problem reports

2006-03-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* src/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* strinet.spec.in: tied in --disable-devel flag
	* src/drivers/udp.c: added new approach to UDP
	* configure.ac: updated and rationalized
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT

2006-03-18  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/drivers/inet.c: moved ss_sock_recvmsg inside locks
	  - might fix problem reported by Kutluk

2006-03-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ANNOUNCE: added announcement file for release
	* .pkgrelease: bumped release number after release
	* NEWS: prepare for next release

2006-03-15  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac (AC_CONFIG_SRCDIR): change unique file to .lsm.in file
	* tests/local.at: set better defaults for stand-alone test suites

2006-03-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>
	
	* strinet.spec.in: added second rpmextra string

2006-03-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac: allow --disable-dependency-tracking in maintainer mode

2006-03-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strinet.spec.in: updated description fields and headers
	* .indent.pro: added -Tss_t for proper spacing of ss_t *
	* src/drivers/inet.c: reindent with above to reduce diff to last version

2006-03-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strinet.lsm.in: make suitable for Linux Software Map submission

2006-03-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Prerequisites): updated for release

2006-03-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: compile tools static for distcheck
	* am/help.am: documented remove target
	* am/openss7.am: added remove target and reverse recursive targets
	* debian/changelog: updated release numbering
	* debian/copyright: updated headers
	* debian/control.in: updated deprecated references to LiS

2006-03-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/include/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* tests/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* Makefile.am: updated headers

2006-03-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* tests/local.at: updated headers

2006-03-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* THANKS: updated for release
	* doc/man/strinet.macros: updated for release
	* doc/man/strinet.refs: updated references
	* README-nexusware: updated for release

2006-03-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Bugs, Known Bugs, Maturity): updated release notes
	* doc/manual/strinet.texi (detailed node listing): added missing Troubleshooting
	* README-cvs: updated for release

2006-03-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: corrected format
	* Makefile.am: updated headers
	* README: updated headers
	* TODO: updated to do items
	* README: updated for release

2006-02-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: modified -- updated for new release
	* Makefile.am: modified -- added TODO file to distribution
	* TODO: added -- added TODO file to distribution

2006-02-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/test/test-inet_raw.c: modified
	* src/test/test-inet_sctp.c: modified
	* src/test/test-inet_tcp.c: modified
	* src/test/test-inet_udp.c: modified
	- 64bit changes
	- suppress lockf for SMP operation
	* tests/testsuite-inet_raw.at: modified
	* tests/testsuite-inet_sctp.at: modified
	* tests/testsuite-inet_tcp.at: modified
	* tests/testsuite-inet_udp.at: modified
	- corrected verbosity
	* src/drivers/inet.c: modified
	- a couple of bug corrections reported by sponsors
	- 64bit changes
	* TODO: added
	* Makefile.am: modified - added TODO file to distribution

2006-02-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .indent.pro: modified - added new types
	* strinet.spec.in: modified - updated for 64bit distribution
	* m4/dist.m4: modified - updated for 64bit distribution
	* src/.indent.pro: modified - added new types

2006-02-19  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: modified - updated for new release

2006-02-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: modified - bumped release number to 3
	* ChangeLog: modified - updated for new release
	* NEWS: modified - updated for new release
	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels

2006-01-17  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/util/init/strinet.sh: modified
	- corrected type in debian init script

2005-09-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/09/14 23:41:35  brian
	- bumped release numbers and change logs

2004-07-27  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.1  2004/06/27 08:15:37  brian
	- Building strinet release.

2004-06-27  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strinet
	- built up initial release of this package

-----

Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com>
Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass
Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions apply
to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it
is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014
of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any
successor regulations) and the Government is acquiring only the license rights
granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to non-Government
users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government
other than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the
Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in
the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the FAR
(or any successor regulations).


Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from OpenSS7
Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/

vim: ft=changelog tw=80 com=fb\:*,fb\:- fo+=tcqlorn nocin nosi
