2006-07-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated quick installation instructions

2006-07-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* NEWS: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/changelog: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/rules.in: clean deb package master build
	* src/test/test-timod.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/test/test-tirdwr.c: removed trigraphs
	* src/test/test-xnet.c: removed trigraphs

2006-07-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/copyright: typo

2006-07-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: packaged release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* debian/control.in: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu
	* debian/rules.in:: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu

2006-07-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* .pkgrelease: package release candidate for Mark Fugate

2006-07-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strxnet.spec.in: place all include files in development sub-package
	* src/modules/timod.c: correct compile back to RH 7.2

2006-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release
	* README-nexusware: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated for release

2006-07-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updates for release

2006-07-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/control.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/rules.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* Makefile.am: added new KERNEL_BLDFLAGS build flags for 2.6.16+
	* strxnet.lsm.in: updates for next release

2006-06-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/lib/xnet.c: increased default data buffer size

2006-06-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: updated references for IUA, DUA, M2PA

2006-05-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/modules/timod.c: added noinline in strategic places

2006-05-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/modules/timod.c: minor performance tuning

2006-05-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: updated
	* tests/testsuite-timod.at: added buffer leak checks
	* tests/testsuite-tirdwr.at: added buffer leak checks
	* tests/testsuite-xnet.at: added buffer leak checks
	* tests/testsuite-xnet_thr.at: added buffer leak checks

2006-05-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/strconf-sh: added module id base to strconf
	* m4/strconf.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* am/strconf.am: added module id base to strconf
	* acinclude.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* strxnet.spec.in: updated headers, corrected init script removal
	* src/util/modutils/strxnet.in: updated headers

2006-05-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* po/de.po: sometimes I have gnu gettext

2006-04-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: more references

2006-04-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: added a few more references

2006-04-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: corrected spelling error reported by spammer
	* src/include/sys/xti_osi.h: added some comments

2006-04-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: added some RFC references

2006-04-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man*/*.man: Moved all .so xxx.macros lines down beneath .R2 with a
	  script.  SuSE 10's broken man(1) program thinks that .so lines after a
	  comment line is a redirect, but it is not.  No other man(1) is that
	  stupid.  OTOH SuSE 10's man(1) uses zsoelim, so it doesn't matter if
	  our .macros file gets compressed (just our .refs file).  Also updated
	  all copyright headers.

2006-03-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: updated LiS and STREAMS release numbers
	* strxnet.spec.in (%package test): described send-pr

2006-03-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strxnet.spec.in: added send-pr files
	* NEWS: updated release notes
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated release notes

2006-03-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/strxnet.texi: added makefile target index
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: bumped release number
	* strxnet.lsm.in: boutelli can't handle decimal point in lsm

2006-03-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .cvsignore: added *.pr files
	* Makefile.am: added pr.am for problem reports
	* acinclude.m4: added pr.m4 and call _AUTOPR for problem reports

2006-03-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* src/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* strxnet.spec.in: tied in --disable-devel flag
	* configure.ac: updated and rationalized
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* doc/specs/tpi/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT

2006-03-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ANNOUNCE: added announcement file for release
	* .pkgrelease: bumped release number after release
	* NEWS: prepare for next release

2006-03-15  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac (AC_CONFIG_SRCDIR): change unique file to .lsm.in file
	* tests/local.at: set better defaults for stand-alone test suites

2006-03-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>
	
	* strxnet.spec.in: added second rpmextra string

2006-03-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac: allow --disable-dependency-tracking in maintainer mode

2006-03-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strxnet.spec.in: updated description fields and headers

2006-03-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strxnet.lsm.in: make suitable for Linux Software Map submission

2006-03-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Prerequisites): updated for release

2006-03-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: compile tools static for distcheck
	* strxnet/po/de.po: I hate GNU gettext
	* am/help.am: documented remove target
	* am/openss7.am: added remove target and reverse recursive targets
	* debian/changelog: updated release numbering
	* debian/copyright: updated headers
	* debian/control.in: updated deprecated references to LiS

2006-03-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/specs/tpi/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/specs/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/include/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* tests/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* Makefile.am: updated headers

2006-03-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/tiuser.h: rationalized to stacks package

2006-03-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* tests/local.at: updated headers

2006-03-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* THANKS: updated for release
	* doc/man/strxnet.macros: updated for release
	* doc/man/strxnet.refs: updated references
	* README-nexusware: updated for release

2006-03-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Bugs, Known Bugs, Maturity): updated release notes
	* doc/manual/strxnet.texi (detailed node listing): added missing Troubleshooting
	* README-cvs: updated for release

2006-03-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: modified -- corrected format of change log
	* Makefile.am: modified -- updated headers
	* src/modules/timod.c: modified
	Changes for ioctl32 registration.
	* TODO: updated to do items
	* README: updated for release


2006-02-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: modified -- updated for new release
	* Makefile.am: modified -- added TODO file to distribution
	* TODO: added -- added TODO file to distribution

2006-02-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/test/test-inet_raw.c: modified
	* src/test/test-inet_tcp.c: modified
	* src/test/test-inet_udp.c: modified
	* src/test/test-timod.c: modified
	* src/test/test-tirdwr.c: modified
	* src/test/test-xnet.c: modified
	- updates for 64bit
	- disabled lockf (doesn't work well on SMP)
	- updated headers

	* tests/testsuite-timod.at: modified
	* tests/testsuite-tirdwr.at: modified
	* tests/testsuite-xnet.at: modified
	* tests/testsuite-xnet_thr.at: modified
	- changed verbosity level for bug reports
	- updated headers

	* src/include/sys/timod.h: modified
	* src/include/sys/tpi.h: modified
	* src/include/sys/xti.h: modified
	- corrections for 64bit and 32/64bit compatibility
	- updated headers

	* TODO: added - added TODO file for this package
	* Makefile.am: modified -- added TODO file to distribution

	* ChangeLog: modified -- updated for new release
	* NEWS: modified -- updated for new release
	* README: modified -- updated for new release

2006-02-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .indent.pro: modified -- added types
	* strxnet.spec.in: modified -- corrected for 64bit distribution
	* m4/dist.m4: modified -- corrected for 64bit distribution
	* src/.indent.pro: modified -- added types

2006-02-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: modified -- updated for new release
	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels

2005-09-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.6  2005/09/14 23:41:55  brian
	- bumped release numbers and change logs

2004-07-27  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.5  2004/06/27 04:24:23  brian
	- Updated.

2004-06-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .rpmrelease:
	- bumped rpm release to 5
	* doc/man/Makefile.am:
	- made sctp manpages conditional on OpenSS7 SCTP kernel
	* ChangeLog: updated
	* NEWS: updated

2004-06-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .rpmrelease:
	- bumped rpm release to 4
	* strxnet.spec.in:
	- added explicit epoch for internal package dependencies for
	  compatibility with rpm release 4.2.1 and 4.2.2.
	* am/kernel.am:
	- corrected symbolic linking and system map location on autoconf
	  install
	* m4/kernel.m4:
	- added detection for EL3 hugemem kernels
	* src/lib/xnet.c:
	- corrected behavior on zero maxlen for t_rcvconnect()

2004-06-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .rpmrelease:
	- bumped rpm release to 3
	* Makefile.am:
	- corrected autoconf device installation from separate build directory
	* m4/genksyms.m4:
	- added check an prefix for CONFIG_REGPARM for SuSE
	* m4/kernel.m4:
	- added check and CFLAGS for CONFIG_REGPARM for SuSE
	- corrected exported symbol caching
	- added ability to supress exported symbol versioning

2004-06-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* am/rpm.am:
	- build tools last so that debug rpm built properly on RH9
	* m4/rpm.m4:
	- quoting error
	* m4/strconf.m4:
	- build quoting problems
	* src/drivers/inet.c:
	- changed MODULE_PARM to non-static
	* src/modules/timod.c:
	- changed MODULE_PARM to non-static
	* src/modules/tirdwr.c:
	- changed MODULE_PARM to non-static

-----

Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com>
Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass
Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions apply
to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it
is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014
of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any
successor regulations) and the Government is acquiring only the license rights
granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to non-Government
users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government
other than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the
Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in
the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the FAR
(or any successor regulations).


Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from OpenSS7
Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/

vim: ft=changelog tw=80 com=fb\:*,fb\:- fo+=tcqlorn nocin nosi
