@c -*- texinfo -*- vim: ft=texinfo
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c @(#) args.texi.in,v 0.9.2.8 2006/05/23 22:43:39 brian Exp
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <www.openss7.com>
@c Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>
@c
@c All Rights Reserved.
@c
@c Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
@c manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
@c preserved on all copies.
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
@c manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
@c entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
@c permission notice identical to this one.
@c 
@c Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
@c manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
@c responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
@c the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
@c have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
@c which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
@c professionally.
@c 
@c Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
@c the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
@c
@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@c
@c U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software
@c on behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following
@c provisions apply to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department
@c of Defense ("DoD"), it is classified as "Commercial Computer Software"
@c under paragraph 252.227-7014 of the DoD Supplement to the Federal
@c Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any successor regulations) and the
@c Government is acquiring only the license rights granted herein (the
@c license rights customarily provided to non-Government users).  If the
@c Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government other than
@c DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
@c Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19
@c of the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor
@c regulations) or, in the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the
@c NASA Supplement to the FAR (or any successor regulations).
@c
@c =========================================================================
@c 
@c Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from
@c OpenSS7 Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/
@c 
@c =========================================================================
@c
@c Last Modified 2006/05/23 22:43:39 by brian
@c
@c =========================================================================

@set PACKAGE striso
@set VERSION 0.9.2.1.rc2
@c @set PACKAGE_BUGREPORT bugs@openss7.org
@set PACKAGE_DATE 2006-10-01
@set PACKAGE_DEBEPOCH 0
@set PACKAGE_DEBOPTIONS '--disable-devfs' '--without-compat' '--without-xti'
@set PACKAGE_DEBRELEASE 0
@set PACKAGE_DEBTOPDIR $(PACKAGE_DISTDIR)/debian
@set PACKAGE_DISTDIR /root/XTI.Work/openss7-0.9.2.D.rc2/striso
@set PACKAGE_EPOCH 2
@set PACKAGE_KNUMBER 2.6.5
@set PACKAGE_KVERSION 2.6.5-7.282-smp
@set PACKAGE_LCNAME striso
@set PACKAGE_NAME striso
@set PACKAGE_RELEASE 1.rc2
@set PACKAGE_RPMDIST SuSE Linux 9 (SUSE LINUX Enterprise Server 9 (i586))
@set PACKAGE_RPMEPOCH 0
@set PACKAGE_RPMEXTRA .9
@set PACKAGE_RPMOPTIONS --define "_without_devfs --disable-devfs" --define "_without_compat --without-compat" --define "_without_xti --without-xti"
@set PACKAGE_RPMRELEASE 1
@set PACKAGE_SHORTTITLE ISO
@set PACKAGE_STRING striso 0.9.2
@set PACKAGE_TARNAME striso
@set PACKAGE_TITLE OpenSS7 ISO Stack
@set PACKAGE_UCNAME STRISO
@set PACKAGE_VERSION 0.9.2

@set _bindir /usr/bin
@set _datadir /usr/share
@set _exec_prefix /usr
@set _includedir /usr/include
@set _infodir /usr/share/info
@set _kmoduledir ${rootdir}/lib/modules/${kversion}
@set _rootdir 
@set _ksysmap /boot/System.map-2.6.5-7.282-smp
@set _kversion 2.6.5-7.282-smp
@set _libdir /usr/lib
@set _libexecdir /usr/libexec
@set _localstatedir ${prefix}/var
@set _mandir /usr/share/man
@set _oldincludedir /usr/include
@set _prefix /usr
@set _sbindir /usr/sbin
@set _sharedstatedir /usr/com
@set _sysconfdir /etc

@set _build i686-suse-linux
@set _build_alias 
@set _build_cpu i686
@set _build_os linux
@set _build_vendor suse

@set _host i686-suse-linux
@set _host_alias 
@set _host_cpu i686
@set _host_os linux
@set _host_vendor suse

@set _target i686-suse-linux
@set _target_alias 
@set _target_cpu i686
@set _target_os linux
@set _target_vendor suse
