2006-07-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README-LiS: new README file warning of deprecated LiS
	* README-nexusware: new missing README file for NexusWare
	* Makefile.am: distribute TODO and README files
	* am/genksyms.am: NexusWare hates empty load scripts

2006-07-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated quick installation instructions
	* am/openss7.am: added tag ids for optimization defines

2006-07-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* NEWS: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/changelog: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/rules.in: clean deb package master build

2006-07-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/copyright: typo

2006-07-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: packaged release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* debian/control.in: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu
	* debian/rules.in:: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu

2006-07-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* README: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* .pkgrelease: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* acinclude.m4: package release candidate for Mark Fugate

2006-07-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.spec.in: place all include files in development sub-package

2006-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* README-alpha: updated for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release
	* scripts/texi/install.texi: updated for release
	* scripts/texi/testsuite.texi: updated for release
	* texi/install.texi: updated for release
	* texi/testsuite.texi: updated for release
	* m4/kernel.m4: still a problem with KBUILD_STR quotes
	* am/openss7.am: make logging targets precious

2006-07-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for 2.6.17 kernel
	* scripts/cflagscheck: check for KBUILD_STR
	* am/kernel.am: add new build flags to modpost
	* debian/changelog: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/control.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build

2006-06-30  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/rpm.m4: changes for Fedora Core 5
	* m4/deb.m4: changes for Fedora Core 5
	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for Fedora Core 5

2006-06-29  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/rpm.m4: variations for Ubuntu
	* m4/deb.m4: variations for Ubuntu
	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for Ubuntu

2006-06-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/kernel.m4: kick out -fno-unit-at-a-time flags
	* am/openss7.am: added noinline stuff to tags ignore list

2006-06-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* TODO: updated things to do

2006-06-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.refs: updated references for IUA, DUA, M2PA

2006-06-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/kernel.m4: strip -fno-reorder-blocks which is keeping
	  __builtin_expect from working on x86_64

2006-05-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .indent.pro: removed storage classes (inline)

2006-05-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/hot.lds: try write path priority over read path
	* m4/kernel.m4: add -fno-inline-functions at -O2

2006-05-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* am/genksyms.am: load script missing -T option for 2.6

2006-05-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/strconf-sh: added module id base to strconf
	* m4/strconf.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* am/strconf.am: added module id base to strconf
	* acinclude.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* openss7.spec.in: updated headers

2006-04-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.refs: more references

2006-04-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.refs: added a few more references

2006-04-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.refs: corrected spelling error reported by spammer

2006-04-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.refs: added some RFC references

2006-04-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* */man*/*.man, */man/man*/*.man, */doc/man/man*/*.man:
	  Moved all .so xxx.macros lines down beneath .R2 with a script.  SuSE
	  10's broken man(1) program thinks that .so lines after a comment line
	  is a redirect, but it is not.  No other man(1) is that stupid.  OTOH
	  SuSE 10's man(1) uses zsoelim, so it doesn't matter if our .macros
	  file gets compressed (just our .refs file).  Also updated all
	  copyright headers.

2006-04-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/dist.m4: better detection of SuSE 10 distribution
	  - SuSE 10 uses all caps in SuSE-release for some stupid reason.
	  - Check for OSS as a SuSE codename (SuSE never had codenames).
	  - Expect Mandrake to use Mandriva in random places.
	* m4/rpm.m4 (PACKAGE_RPMDIST): add codename
	* scripts/send-pr: do not remove leading space from included lines

2006-03-31  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/hot.lds: miss-ordering of hot.put and hot.get

2006-03-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/openss7.m4: got enable_static backwards

2006-03-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.refs: updated LiS and STREAMS release numbers
	* am/pr.am: scrpits/send-pr missing from distribution
	* openss7.spec.in (%package test): described send-pr
	* am/autotest.am: stylistic changes
	* am/pr.am: only install noarch

2006-03-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/send-pr: added (renamed from auto-pr)
	* scripts/auto-pr: deleted (renamed to send-pr)
	* scripts/send-pr.config.in: added (renamed from auto-pr.config.in)
	* scripts/auto-pr.config.in: deleted (renamed to send-pr.config.in)
	* am/openss7.am: renamed auto-pr to send-pr
	* am/pr.am: renamed auto-pr to send-pr
	* m4/pr.m4: renamed auto-pr to send-pr
	* texi/install.texi: changed auto-pr and mail-pr to send-pr
	* texi/testsuite.texi: changed auto-pr and mail-pr to send-pr
	* scripts/texi/install.texi: changed auto-pr and mail-pr to send-pr
	* scripts/texi/testsuite.texi: changed auto-pr and mail-pr to send-pr

2006-03-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* am/pr.am: changed some target names
	- made mail-pr call auto-pr with --mail argument
	* scripts/auto-pr: working up auto-pr
	- added --mail argument
	* texi/install.texi: added makefile target documentation
	* scripts/texi/install.texi: added makefile target documentation
	* texi/testsuite.texi: added problem reports with auto-pr
	* scripts/texi/testsuite.texi: added problem reports with auto-pr
	* am/help.am: spelling

2006-03-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/pr.m4: configuration for auto-pr problem reports
	* scripts/auto-pr: automagically generate problem reports
	* am/man.am: handle .PHONY correctly
	* .cvsignore: added *.pr files
	* am/openss7.am: added auto-pr on failure to logging targets
	* am/pr.am: new automake fragement for problem reports
	* Makefile.am: added pr.am for problem reports
	* acinclude.m4: added pr.m4 and call _AUTOPR for problem reports
	* scripts/auto-pr.config.in: configuration file for auto-pr

2006-03-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* TODO: updated todo items for common packaging
	* m4/openss7.m4: added check for --disable-devel
	* am/info.am: add DEVELOPMENT check
	* am/man.am: add DEVELOPMENT check
	* openss7.spec.in: tied in --disable-devel flag
	* texi/install.texi: documented --disable-devel flag
	* scripts/texi/install.texi: documented --disable-devel flag
	* m4/openss7.m4: don't build libtool static libraries no devel
	* configure.ac: updated and rationalized

2006-03-17  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* TODO: updated todo items for common packaging

2006-03-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ANNOUNCE: added announcement file for release
	* .pkgrelease: bumped release number after release
	* NEWS: prepare for next release

2006-03-15  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac (AC_CONFIG_SRCDIR): changed unique file to openss7.lsm.in
	* acinclude.m4: check for presense of source subdirectories
	* am/info.am: build and distribute text info documentation
	* am/info.am: can't distribute pdf and txt images

2006-03-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/devfs.m4: minor syntax consistency
	* m4/dist.m4: minor syntax consistency
	* m4/genksyms.m4: minor syntax consistency
	* m4/init.m4: minor syntax consistency
	* m4/kernel.m4: minor syntax consistency
	* m4/strconf.m4: minor syntax consistency
	* m4/inet.m4: advanced search capabilities
	* m4/sctp.m4: advanced search capabilities
	* m4/ss7.m4: added new search file for ss7 directories
	* m4/strcomp.m4: advanced search capabilities
	* m4/streams.m4: advanced search capabilities
	* m4/xns.m4: advanced search capabilities
	* m4/xti.m4: advanced search capabilities
	* m4/kernel.m4: sed quotation correction
	* m4/rpm.m4: added second rpmextra string
	* am/rpm.am: added second rpmextra string
	* openss7.spec.in: added second rpmextra string
	* acinclude.m4: moved BCM to end, corrected directory searches

2006-03-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* m4/inet.m4: even smarter about finding directories
	* m4/sctp.m4: even smarter about finding directories
	* m4/strcomp.m4: even smarter about finding directories
	* m4/streams.m4: even smarter about finding directories
	* m4/xns.m4: even smarter about finding directories
	* m4/xti.m4: even smarter about finding directories
	* Makefile.am: pass down master_srcdir and master_builddir
	* acinclude.m4: susbstitute master_srcdir and master_builddir

2006-03-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* autotest.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* deb.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* devfs.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* dist.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* genksyms.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* inet.m4: updated headers, vim tags, include directory search
	* init.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* kernel.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* libraries.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* man.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* openss7.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* public.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* rpm.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* sctp.m4: updated headers, vim tags, include directory search
	* strcomp.m4: updated headers, vim tags, include directory search
	* strconf.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* streams.m4: updated headers, vim tags, include directory search
	* xns.m4: updated headers, vim tags, include directory search
	* xopen.m4: updated headers, vim tags
	* xti.m4: updated headers, vim tags, include directory search
	* configure.ac: allow --disable-dependency-tracking in maintainer mode
	* am/info.am: try to avoid rebuilding docs when unnecessary
	* m4/inet.m4: uppercase LDADD is too loud
	* m4/sctp.m4: uppercase LDADD is too loud
	* m4/strcomp.m4: uppercase LDADD is too loud
	* m4/xns.m4: uppercase LDADD is too loud
	* m4/streams.m4: uppercase LDADD is too loud
	* m4/xti.m4: uppercase LDADD is too loud
	* acinclude.m4: wider range of initial checks

2006-03-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* openss7.spec.in: updated description fields and headers

2006-03-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac: got rid of autoconf nits
	* am/strconf.am: suppress rebuilds on package file or directory for now
	* openss7.lsm.in: make suitable for Linux Software Map submission

2006-03-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/strconf-sh: updated headers
	* scripts/strconf-sh: added pkgobject to defaults
	* am/strconf.am (STRCONF_PKGDIR): added binary package directory detection
	* m4/strconf.m4 (STRCONF_PKGDIR): added binary package directory detection
	* scripts/strconf-sh: added pkgobject and packagedir
	* m4/strconf.m4: corrected typo
	* m4/kernel.m4: correct autoconf warnings
	* m4/openss7.m4: change AC_HELP_STRING to AS_HELP_STRING
	* m4/autotest.m4: change AC_HELP_STRING to AS_HELP_STRING
	* m4/sctp.m4: change AC_HELP_STRING to AS_HELP_STRING
	* m4/xns.m4: change AC_HELP_STRING to AS_HELP_STRING
	* m4/xti.m4: change AC_HELP_STRING to AS_HELP_STRING
	* m4/inet.m4: change AC_HELP_STRING to AS_HELP_STRING

2006-03-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: corrected package number bump
	* NEWS: updated for release
	* am/info.am: keep docs from being rebuilt outside of maintianer mode
	* Makefile.am: must clean out module symbols and caches for distcheck
	* acinclude.m4: be smarter about which packages to build
	* configure.ac (pkg_save_LIBS): correct error
	* am/help.am: documented remove target
	* am/openss7.am: added remove target and reverse recursive targets
	* acinclude.m4: a little smarter still
	* debian/changelog: updated release numbering
	* debian/copyright: updated headers
	* debian/control.in: updated deprecated references to LiS
	* acinclude.m4: added strbcm package

2006-03-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: updated headers
	* am/archive.am: updated headers
	* am/autotest.am: updated headers
	* am/deb.am: updated headers
	* am/genksyms.am: updated headers
	* am/help.am: updated headers
	* am/info.am: updated headers
	* am/init.am: updated headers
	* am/kernel.am: updated headers
	* am/libraries.am: updated headers
	* am/lsm.am: updated headers
	* am/man.am: updated headers
	* am/openss7.am: updated headers
	* am/rpm.am: updated headers
	* am/sctp.am: updated headers
	* am/strconf.am: updated headers

2006-03-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* THANKS: updated for release
	* openss7.macros: new file with manpage macros
	* openss7.refs: updated references
	* README-nexusware: updated for release

2006-03-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* README-alpha: updated for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release

2006-03-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: started actively mantaining this change log
	* TODO: update to do items
	* README: updated for release

2005-09-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Revision 0.9.2.2  2005/09/14 23:40:47  brian
	- bumped release numbers and change logs

-----

Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com>
Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass
Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions apply
to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it
is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014
of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any
successor regulations) and the Government is acquiring only the license rights
granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to non-Government
users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government
other than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the
Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in
the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the FAR
(or any successor regulations).


Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from OpenSS7
Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/

vim: ft=changelog tw=80 com=fb\:*,fb\:- fo+=tcqlorn nocin nosi
