2006-07-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated quick installation instructions

2006-07-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .pkgrelease: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* NEWS: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/changelog: bumped version to release candidate 2
	* debian/rules.in: clean deb package master build

2006-07-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/copyright: typo

2006-07-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: packaged release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* debian/control.in: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu
	* debian/rules.in:: first full debian master package build of debs on Ubuntu

2006-07-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* NEWS: package release candidate for Mark Fugate
	* .pkgrelease: package release candidate for Mark Fugate

2006-07-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: corrections for LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/include/sys/os7/compat.h: corrections for LiS-only compile on FC5
	* strcompat.spec.in: place all include files in development sub-package
	* doc/man/Makefile.am: corrections for complete distribution check,
	  missing manual page in LiS-only build.

2006-07-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* README-cvs: updated for release
	* README-nexusware: updated for release
	* acinclude.m4: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated for release
	* src/kernel/lfscompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/irixcompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/hpuxcompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/aixcompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/uw7compat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/svr4compat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/svr3compat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/suncompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/osfcompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/mpscompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/maccompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5
	* src/kernel/liscompat.c: changes to correct LiS-only compile on FC5

2006-07-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updates for release
	* src/kernel/aixcompat.c: changes for gcc 4.1.1 compile

2006-07-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* debian/changelog: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/control.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* debian/rules.in: changes for Ubuntu dpkg build
	* Makefile.am: added new KERNEL_BLDFLAGS build flags for 2.6.16+
	* strcompat.lsm.in: updates for next release

2006-06-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/aix/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/aix/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/aix/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/hpux/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/hpux/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/hpux/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/irix/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/irix/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/irix/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/lfs/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/lfs/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/lfs/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/lis/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/lis/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/lis/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/mac/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/mac/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/mac/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/mps/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/mps/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/mps/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/os7/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/os7/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/os7/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/osf/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/osf/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/osf/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/sun/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/sun/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/sun/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/sun/strsun.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/svr3/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/svr3/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/svr3/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/svr4/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/svr4/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/svr4/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/uw7/ddi.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/uw7/strconf.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/include/sys/uw7/stream.h: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/aixcompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/hpuxcompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/irixcompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/lfscompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/liscompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/maccompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/mpscompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/osfcompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/suncompat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/svr3compat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/svr4compat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile
	* src/kernel/uw7compat.c: corrected extern inline for quick compile

2006-06-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/os7/allocb.h: some optimizations and one bug (by
	  inspection)

2006-06-19  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: more optimizations

2006-06-18  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: some optimizations

2006-06-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/os7/compat.h: added null section statements for LiS
	* src/include/sys/os7/debug.h: rationalized to streams/strdebug.h for LiS
	* src/include/sys/os7/strconf.h: sp correction
	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: forward declaration for LiS

2006-06-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: updated references for IUA, DUA, M2PA

2006-05-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: added noinline in strategic places

2006-05-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: inlined queue locking functions

2006-05-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/aix/stream.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/irix/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/lfs/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/lfs/strconf.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/lfs/stream.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/lis/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/lis/stream.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/mps/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/mps/stream.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/os7/allocb.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/os7/bufpool.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/os7/bufq.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/os7/timer.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/osf/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/osf/stream.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/sun/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/sun/strconf.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/sun/stream.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/sun/strsun.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/svr3/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/svr4/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely
	* src/include/sys/uw7/ddi.h: mark normal inline functions unlikely

2006-05-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* scripts/strconf-sh: added module id base to strconf
	* m4/strconf.m4: added module id base to strconf
	* am/strconf.am: added module id base to strconf
	* acinclude.m4: added module id base to strconf

	* strcompat.spec.in: updated headers, corrected init script removal
	* src/util/init/README: updated headers
	* src/util/init/strcompat: updated headers
	* src/util/init/strcompat.sh: updated headers
	* src/util/modutils/strcompat.in: updated headers
	* src/util/sysconfig/README: updated headers
	* src/util/sysconfig/strcompat: updated headers
	* src/util/sysconfig/strcompat.conf: updated headers

2006-04-25  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: more references

2006-04-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/os7/priv.h: minor corrections
	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: minor corrections

2006-04-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: added a few more references
	* src/include/sys/os7/allocb.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/bufpool.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/bufq.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/compat.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/ddi.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/debug.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/lock.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/priv.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/queue.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/strconf.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/stream.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/include/sys/os7/timer.h: updated header and optimizations
	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: optimizations

2006-04-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: corrected spelling error reported by spammer

2006-04-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: added some RFC references

2006-04-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man*/*.man: Moved all .so xxx.macros lines down beneath .R2 with a
	  script.  SuSE 10's broken man(1) program thinks that .so lines after a
	  comment line is a redirect, but it is not.  No other man(1) is that
	  stupid.  OTOH SuSE 10's man(1) uses zsoelim, so it doesn't matter if
	  our .macros file gets compressed (just our .refs file).  Also updated
	  all copyright headers.

2006-03-30  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/os7/queue.h: new prototype for ss7_putq without the
	  call to wakeup function

2006-03-28  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/os7/allocb.h: rationalized to working versions in
	  strinet
	* src/include/sys/os7/priv.h: rationalized to working versions in
	  strinet
	* src/kernel/os7compat.c: rationalized to working versions in strinet

	- this is in preparation for converting external modules that use
	  similar versions of these functions to use the compatibility module
	  versions instead

2006-03-24  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: updated LiS and STREAMS release numbers
	* strcompat.spec.in (%package test): described send-pr

2006-03-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strcompat.spec.in: added send-pr files
	* NEWS: updated release notes
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated release notes

2006-03-22  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/strcompat.texi: added makefile target index
	* doc/manual/releases.text: bumped release number
	* strcompat.lsm.in: boutelli can't handle decimal point in lsm

2006-03-21  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* .cvsignore: added *.pr files
	* Makefile.am: added pr.am for problem reports
	* acinclude.m4: added pr.m4 and call _AUTOPR for problem reports

2006-03-20  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* src/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT
	* strcompat.spec.in: tied in --disable-devel flag
	* configure.ac: updated and rationalized
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: added checks for DEVELOPMENT

2006-03-16  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ANNOUNCE: added announcement file for release
	* .pkgrelease: bumped release number after release
	* NEWS: prepare for next release

2006-03-15  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac (AC_CONFIG_SRCDIR): change unique file to .lsm.in file
	* tests/local.at: set better defaults for stand-alone test suites

2006-03-14  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>
	
	* strcompat.spec.in: added second rpmextra string

2006-03-11  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* configure.ac: allow --disable-dependency-tracking in maintainer mode

2006-03-10  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strcompat.spec.in: updated description fields and headers

2006-03-09  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* strcompat.lsm.in: make suitable for Linux Software Map submission

2006-03-08  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Prerequisites): updated for release

2006-03-07  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* Makefile.am: compile tools static for distcheck
	* am/help.am: documented remove target
	* am/openss7.am: added remove target and reverse recursive targets
	* debian/changelog: updated release numbering
	* debian/copyright: updated headers
	* debian/control.in: updated deprecated references to LiS

2006-03-06  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* doc/man/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/manual/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* doc/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/include/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* src/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* tests/Makefile.am: updated headers
	* Makefile.am: updated headers

2006-03-05  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* src/include/sys/lis/strconf.h: removed deprecated attribute from
	  lis_(un)register_strdev/strmod

2006-03-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* tests/local.at: updated headers

2006-03-03  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* THANKS: updated for release
	* doc/man/strcompat.macros: updated for release
	* doc/man/strcompat.refs: updated references
	* README-nexusware: updated for release
	* AUTHORS: updated for release
	* NEWS: updated for release
	* src/include/sys/sun/strsun.h: 64-bit compatibility
	* src/kernel/lfscompat.c (drv_getparm): correction to UCRED
	* src/kernel/mpscompat.c: 64-bit compatibility
	* src/kernel/svr4compat.c: SMP compatibility

2006-03-02  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* README: updated for release
	* doc/manual/releases.texi: updated release notes
	* doc/manual/releases.texi (Bugs, Known Bugs, Maturity): updated release notes
	* doc/manual/strcompat.texi (detailed node listing): added missing Troubleshooting
	* README-cvs: updated for release

2006-03-01  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: corrected format of change log
	* TODO: updated to do list
	* README: updated for release

2006-02-23  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	* ChangeLog: modified -- updated for new release
	* Makefile.am: modified -- added TODO file to distribution
	* TODO: added -- added TODO file to distribution

2006-02-13  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- Changes from strcompat 0.9.2.2 release:
	* m4/kernel.m4: changes for Gentoo and 2.6.15 kernels

2005-06-04  Brian Bidulock  <bidulock@openss7.org>

	- first cut at streams compatibility package

-----

Copyright (c) 2001-2006  OpenSS7 Corporation <http://www.openss7.com>
Copyright (c) 1997-2000  Brian F. G. Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass
Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.


U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS.  If you are licensing this Software on
behalf of the U.S. Government ("Government"), the following provisions apply
to you.  If the Software is supplied by the Department of Defense ("DoD"), it
is classified as "Commercial Computer Software" under paragraph 252.227-7014
of the DoD Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("DFARS") (or any
successor regulations) and the Government is acquiring only the license rights
granted herein (the license rights customarily provided to non-Government
users).  If the Software is supplied to any unit or agency of the Government
other than DoD, it is classified as "Restricted Computer Software" and the
Government's rights in the Software are defined in paragraph 52.227-19 of the
Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR") (or any successor regulations) or, in
the cases of NASA, in paragraph 18.52.227-86 of the NASA Supplement to the FAR
(or any successor regulations).


Commercial licensing and support of this software is available from OpenSS7
Corporation at a fee.  See http://www.openss7.com/

vim: ft=changelog tw=80 com=fb\:*,fb\:- fo+=tcqlorn nocin nosi
